# [IEEE INFOCOM 2024 Demo] Your paper \#1570980211 ('FedKit: Enabling Cross-Platform Federated Learning for Android and iOS')

To: Sichang He <sichang.he@dukekunshan.edu.cn>, Beilong Tang <beilong.tang@dukekunshan.edu.cn>, Boyan Zhang <boyan.zhang@dukekunshan.edu.cn>, Jiaqi Shao <jiaqi.shao@connect.ust.hk>, Xiaomin Ouyang <xmouyang23@ucla.edu>, Daniel Nata Nugraha <daniel.nata@flower.dev>, Bing Luo <bing.luo@dukekunshan.edu.cn> Cc: Ruidong Li <lrd@se.kanazawa-u.ac.jp>, Rui Zhang <ruizhang@udel.edu>

Dear Mr. Sichang He:

Congratulations!

We are very happy to inform you that your paper \#1570980211, titled
"FedKit: Enabling Cross-Platform Federated Learning for Android and
iOS," has been ACCEPTED to IEEE INFOCOM 2024 Demo.

The reviews for your paper are attached below and can also be found in
EDAS
at [<u>1570980211</u>](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://edas.info/showPaper.php?m=1570980211__;!!OToaGQ!uQxs3qlXPy6qgGDoyg5BIEIsaO6dfd2HTW829u_rHmJBLcFb2zfN7menMWnRK_sMiKEluHAUry8OXrAB15a1I9UJQ1q25j3orhxFgQ$).

**Preparing the final manuscript**

Final versions of accepted abstracts (two-page papers) must be uploaded
to EDAS for inclusion in the conference proceedings and to be submitted
to IEEE Xplore®. The deadline is 5:00pm US ET, Tuesday, 5 March 2024.

**IEEE/IEEE Communications Society/IEEE INFOCOM Policies**

For the abstract (two-page paper) of your demo/poster to be included in
the IEEE INFOCOM 2024 Conference Proceedings and to be included in IEEE
Xplore, ALL of the below requirements must be met. Failing to meet any
of the below requirements will lead to the exclusion of your abstract
from the IEEE INFOCOM 2024 Conference Proceedings and IEEE Xplore.

1. At least one author of each accepted demo/poster abstract is
    required to register for INFOCOM 2024 at the appropriate rate for
    his or her membership category. If a poster/demo author does not
    have any paper accepted by the main conference, then he or she must
    register as POSTER/DEMO ONLY REGISTRATION (Authors)\*. If a
    poster/demo author already has a paper in the main conference, then
    the same main conference registration can cover no more than one
    poster/demo abstract.

1. The demo/poster abstract must be presented IN PERSON by an author of
    the demo/poster at the conference. No substitute presenter will be
    allowed.

1. Non-refundable registration fees must be paid prior to uploading the
    final IEEE formatted, publication-ready version of the demo/poster
    abstract. For authors with multiple accepted abstracts, one
    registration is valid for up to 3 poster or demo abstracts. Only
    presented abstracts will be submitted to IEEE Xplore.

1. The author list on your poster/demo abstract must be consistent with
    that on EDAS. The IEEE ComSoc prohibits changes to the list of
    authors once an abstract has been submitted for review, during
    revision, or (if accepted) final publication.

**Important dates**

Final version submission deadline: March 5, 2024

Demo/poster authors registration deadline: March 5, 2024

IEEE INFOCOM 2023 demo sessions: May 21-22, 2024

IEEE INFOCOM 2023 poster sessions: May 22-23, 2024

**Revise your abstract**

Please read the reviews of your abstract and follow the reviewers'
recommendations for revising it and preparing the final version. When
you are done with the revision, please print out your abstract and
carefully proofread it. Review formatting requirements can be found
at: [<u>https://www.ieee.org/conferences\_events/conferences/publishing/templates.html</u>](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://www.ieee.org/conferences_events/conferences/publishing/templates.html__;!!OToaGQ!uQxs3qlXPy6qgGDoyg5BIEIsaO6dfd2HTW829u_rHmJBLcFb2zfN7menMWnRK_sMiKEluHAUry8OXrAB15a1I9UJQ1q25j2QLsQS1A$)

**IEEE PDF eXpress**

Use IEEE PDF eXpress to check if your paper is Xplore compatible. The
PDF eXpress website can be found
at [<u>https://ieee-pdf-express.org/</u>](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://ieee-pdf-express.org/__;!!OToaGQ!uQxs3qlXPy6qgGDoyg5BIEIsaO6dfd2HTW829u_rHmJBLcFb2zfN7menMWnRK_sMiKEluHAUry8OXrAB15a1I9UJQ1q25j0HGwp76A$).
The conference ID for INFOCOM 2024 Demo is 61880.

**Register for the Demo/Poster session**

For Demo/Poster registration, please go to the Registration page of the
IEEE INFOCOM 2024
website [<u>https://infocom2024.ieee-infocom.org/registration</u>](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https://infocom2024.ieee-infocom.org/registration__;!!OToaGQ!uQxs3qlXPy6qgGDoyg5BIEIsaO6dfd2HTW829u_rHmJBLcFb2zfN7menMWnRK_sMiKEluHAUry8OXrAB15a1I9UJQ1q25j06H0UNow$) and
follow the instructions. After completing your registration, you will
receive an email with your registration confirmation number. Write this
number down; you will need to use it to upload your abstract into EDAS.

**Submit your abstract**

Your final abstract must be submitted no later than 5:00pm US ET,
Tuesday, 5 March 2024 in order to be included in the conference
Proceedings. Each abstract should have 2 pages.

To submit your final abstract, please go to EDAS, click on the “My
Papers” button, and then upload your abstract on the link provided. The
registration code is “INF” + confirmation number of your registration.
The author list in the PDF file should exactly conform with that in
EDAS; otherwise, the abstract will be removed from the program. If you
experience any problems during the upload process of your abstract on
EDAS, please contact <help@edas-help.com>.

**IEEE Copyright Form**

Before you upload your camera-ready abstract, you will need to submit
your IEEE copyright form using the IEEE electronic copyright mechanism.
Please follow the link provided on the final paper submission page.

We look forward to seeing you at IEEE INFOCOM 2024.

Best Regards,

Rui Zhang and Ruidong Li  
IEEE INFOCOM 2024 Demo/Poster Co-Chairs

### **Demo Submission Reviews 1**

#### **Contributions: What are the major issues addressed in the paper? Do you consider them important? Comment on the novelty, creativity, impact, and technical depth in the paper.**

This paper introduces FEDKIT, a federated learning system that is
user-friendly and supports cross-platform (Android and iOS) on-device
model training and aggregation.

#### **Strengths: What are the major reasons to accept the paper? \[Be brief.\]**

- The authors have effectively addressed the challenge of retrieving
    and setting model parameters on both iOS and Android devices.

- FEDKIT facilitates continuous model delivery, eliminating the need
    for frequent app updates during development. This is particularly
    beneficial for federated learning (FL) researchers conducting
    experiments.

- The showcase clearly illustrates FEDKIT's advancements, effectively
    demonstrating the system's capabilities.

#### **Weaknesses: What are the major reasons NOT to accept the paper? \[Be brief.\]**

- The authors compare their contributions with other works in Table I.
    When comparing with reference \[5\], it appears that FEDKIT merely
    adds features for training acceleration and MLOps. If so, why not
    integrate these features into reference \[5\] instead of developing
    a new system? These two features do not seem overly complex, raising
    questions about the necessity for a new system.

- In Section II, Part A, Subsection 2, the authors describe their
    method for setting parameters on CoreML but do not compare it with
    methods from other works. Is this solution unique to this paper? If
    it is, how does it compare in effectiveness and efficiency with
    others?

#### **Detailed Comments: Please provide detailed comments that will help the TPC assess the paper and help provide feedback to the authors.**

This paper introduces FEDKIT, a federated learning system that is
user-friendly and supports cross-platform (Android and iOS) on-device
model training and aggregation. My comments are outlined below.
Strengths:

- The authors have effectively addressed the challenge of retrieving
    and setting model parameters on both iOS and Android devices.

- FEDKIT facilitates continuous model delivery, eliminating the need
    for frequent app updates during development. This is particularly
    beneficial for federated learning (FL) researchers conducting
    experiments.

- The showcase clearly illustrates FEDKIT's advancements, effectively
    demonstrating the system's capabilities. Weaknesses:

- The authors compare their contributions with other works in Table I.
    When comparing with reference \[5\], it appears that FEDKIT merely
    adds features for training acceleration and MLOps. If so, why not
    integrate these features into reference \[5\] instead of developing
    a new system? These two features do not seem overly complex, raising
    questions about the necessity for a new system.

- In Section II, Part A, Subsection 2, the authors describe their
    method for setting parameters on CoreML but do not compare it with
    methods from other works. Is this solution unique to this paper? If
    it is, how does it compare in effectiveness and efficiency with
    others?

#### **Familiarity: Rate your familiarity with the topic of the paper.**

Expert (I conduct(ed) active research work in this topic) (4)

#### **Recommendation: Your overall rating (Please try giving as few borderlines as possible).**

accept (3)

### **Demo Submission Reviews 2**

#### **Contributions: What are the major issues addressed in the paper? Do you consider them important? Comment on the novelty, creativity, impact, and technical depth in the paper.**

The primary contribution of this paper is the development of a
cross-platform federated learning (FL) framework designed to operate on
both iOS and Android devices. This framework enables the collaborative
training of identical models across the varied smartphones of our users.
The authors introduce a method for cross-platform on-device training and
model aggregation. Additionally, they tailor federated learning
algorithms and update models in production to ensure maximal control
over the FL process on users' devices from our perspective.

#### **Strengths: What are the major reasons to accept the paper? \[Be brief.\]**

The cross-platform federated learning framework for mobile devices is a
vital field that has been underexplored by both academia and industry.
This paper aims to address this oversight and contributes to the
community by providing a GitHub repository.

#### **Weaknesses: What are the major reasons NOT to accept the paper? \[Be brief.\]**

The paper does not discuss how platform differences might affect model
performance, and the YouTube demo provided is inaccessible.

#### **Detailed Comments: Please provide detailed comments that will help the TPC assess the paper and help provide feedback to the authors.**

I suggest to accept this paper.

This paper makes a significant contribution to the field of mobile
federated learning by developing a cross-platform framework that is
compatible with both iOS and Android devices. This innovative framework
facilitates the collaborative training of uniform models across a
diverse array of user smartphones, addressing a critical gap in the
current research landscape that has seen limited exploration from both
academic and industrial perspectives. By introducing methods for
cross-platform on-device training and model aggregation, alongside
customizing federated learning algorithms and updating models in
production, the authors ensure maximal control over the FL process
directly from the user's device. This approach not only advances the
practical application of federated learning across different mobile
platforms but also significantly enhances the accessibility of this
technology to the broader community through the provision of a GitHub
repository. The paper's focus on bridging the gap in cross-platform
federated learning for mobile devices and its contribution to
open-source resources solidify its position as a valuable addition to
the field,

#### **Familiarity: Rate your familiarity with the topic of the paper.**

Familiar (I am well aware of research work in this topic) (3)

#### **Recommendation: Your overall rating (Please try giving as few borderlines as possible).**

accept (3)

### **Demo Submission Reviews 3**

#### **Contributions: What are the major issues addressed in the paper? Do you consider them important? Comment on the novelty, creativity, impact, and technical depth in the paper.**

This paper introduces FEDKIT, a system designed for cross-platform FL
training on Android and iOS devices. FEDKIT aims to facilitate the
development and deployment of FL models by providing tools for model
conversion, hardware-accelerated training, and cross-platform model
aggregation.

#### **Strengths: What are the major reasons to accept the paper? \[Be brief.\]**

It supports flexible machine learning operations (MLOps) to enable
continuous model delivery and training in production environments.
Additionally, its real-world application in health data analysis
demonstrates its practical effectiveness.

#### **Weaknesses: What are the major reasons NOT to accept the paper? \[Be brief.\]**

It is unclear how the version of the OS in cross-platform affects the
training, or can the model trained on one platform affect the
aggregation with other models?

#### **Detailed Comments: Please provide detailed comments that will help the TPC assess the paper and help provide feedback to the authors.**

See Strengths/Weaknesses

#### **Familiarity: Rate your familiarity with the topic of the paper.**

Expert (I conduct(ed) active research work in this topic) (4)

#### **Recommendation: Your overall rating (Please try giving as few borderlines as possible).**

accept (3)

### **Demo Submission Reviews 4**

#### **Contributions: What are the major issues addressed in the paper? Do you consider them important? Comment on the novelty, creativity, impact, and technical depth in the paper.**

The authors address an important problem: how to do federate learning
across different mobile systems like android and iOS. This can
facilitate the application of federated learning on users' devices. They
authors also introduce a backhand to coordinate the learning process.
Overall, the problem the authors study is important, and their proposed
system FedKit looks novel. They authors give details on their proposed
system and demonstrate its effectiveness using a practical
implementation: they harness users' health data and perform FL on a
sleep-efficency predication model.

#### **Strengths: What are the major reasons to accept the paper? \[Be brief.\]**

The problem they study is important as discussed as above. The proposed
approach looks novel and the authors give demonstration on a real-world
dataset.

#### **Weaknesses: What are the major reasons NOT to accept the paper? \[Be brief.\]**

Not enough benchmarks are compared with The live demonstration only
demonstrate the reduction of training loss but it is not enough to
showcase the performance of the system.

#### **Detailed Comments: Please provide detailed comments that will help the TPC assess the paper and help provide feedback to the authors.**

Overall, this paper is well presented and the authors make important
contribution to cross-platform federated learning. The authors provide a
table to show the properties their work provides compared to other
similar works. The only concerning the reviewer has is that there is not
enough assessment for their proposed FedKit system except the train time
is in a few seconds (for two local epochs). Still, it seems slow and we
do not know how it scales, like how many parameters are used in the
model, the size of dataset, etc. and some details of the training model
are missing. Some discussion on that is expected.

#### **Familiarity: Rate your familiarity with the topic of the paper.**

Some knowledge (I am marginally aware of research work in this topic)
(2)

#### **Recommendation: Your overall rating (Please try giving as few borderlines as possible).**

accept (3)

### **Demo Submission Reviews 5**

#### **Contributions: What are the major issues addressed in the paper? Do you consider them important? Comment on the novelty, creativity, impact, and technical depth in the paper.**

The authors built a cross-platform Federated Learning system that works
for both Android and iOS. They demonstrated that their system, FedKit,
overcame the three challenges and achieved excellent training and
testing performance. In general, the topic is interesting and important.

#### **Strengths: What are the major reasons to accept the paper? \[Be brief.\]**

Pros

- The paper is well-motivated and well-structure.

- The demo results are exciting.

#### **Weaknesses: What are the major reasons NOT to accept the paper? \[Be brief.\]**

Cons

- The authors only provided results on an Android device and an iOS
    device while results on more devices particularly Android devices
    from different manufacturers are expected.

- It is better that Fig. 3 is to show training progress rather than a
    photo illustrating the setup.

#### **Detailed Comments: Please provide detailed comments that will help the TPC assess the paper and help provide feedback to the authors.**

Summary The authors built a cross-platform Federated Learning system
that works for both Android and iOS. They demonstrated that their
system, FedKit, overcame the three challenges and achieved excellent
training and testing performance.

Pros

- The paper is well-motivated and well-structure.

- The demo results are exciting.

Cons

- The authors only provided results on an Android device and an iOS
    device while results on more devices particularly Android devices
    from different manufacturers are expected.

- It is better that Fig. 3 is to show training progress rather than a
    photo illustrating the setup.

#### **Familiarity: Rate your familiarity with the topic of the paper.**

Familiar (I am well aware of research work in this topic) (3)

#### **Recommendation: Your overall rating (Please try giving as few borderlines as possible).**

accept (3)
